README.md, before:

## Initial Project Setup

To start the project:

```bash
mkdir ninety_nine_cats
cd ninety_cats
pyenv virtualenv ninety_nine_cats
pyenv local ninety_nine_cats
pip install --upgrade pip
pip install Django
pip freeze > requirements.txt
django-admin startproject ninety_nine_cats .
```

To run the server (default port 8000):

```python
./manage.py runserver
```

The server should auto-restart when code changes.

## Starting the `cats` App

Django distinguishes the concept of "project" from "app." An "app" is a
reusable part of the larger project. I think an example is the admin
panel is an app that you can add.

First, let's setup pylint:

```
pip install pylint-django
pip freeze > requirements.txt
```

And add these lines to `.vscode/settings.json`:

```json
{
  "python.pythonPath": "/Users/ruggeri/.pyenv/versions/ninety_nine_cats/bin/python",
  "python.linting.pylintArgs": [
    "--load-plugins",
    "pylint_django",
    // missing-module-docstring (C0114),
    // missing-class-docstring (C0115),
    // missing-function-docstring (C0116),
    // bad-indentation (W0311),
    // bad-continuation (C0330),
    // too-few-public-methods (R0903),
    "--disable=C0114,C0115,C0116,W0311,C0330,R0903"
  ]
}
```

Next, let's create a very basic view function in `cats/views.py`:

```python
from django.http import HttpResponse

def index(request):
  return HttpResponse("Hello world!")
```

And let's connect it to a url in `cats/urls.py` (you'll have to touch
the file to make it first):

```python
from django.urls import path
from . import views

# name gives us a way to construct a url later.
urlpatterns = [path('', views.index, name="index")]
```

Last, setup the url in `ninety_nine_cats/urls.py`:

```python
from django.contrib import admin
# include is used to mount an app at a path.
from django.urls import include, path

urlpatterns = [
    path('cats/', include('cats.urls')), # << this is the line to add
    path('admin/', admin.site.urls),
]
```

## Database Setup

In `ninety_nine_cats/settings.py` there is some database configuration:

```python
DATABASES = {
    'default': {
        'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.sqlite3',
        'NAME': BASE_DIR / 'db.sqlite3',
    }
}
```

We won't go deeper into setting up Postgres right away. But you can see
it is here. We will run the default generated migration files (for admin
console, et cetera):

```
./manage.py migrate
```

Now you can run `sqlite3 db.sqlite3` and run `.schema --indent` to see
the default created schema.

Let's make our first models in `cats/models.py`:

```python
from django.db import models

# Each subclass of models.Model represents a model
class Cat(models.Model):
  # The fields are described as class properties. Every field has their
  # own options, which we will review some future time.
  name = models.CharField(max_length=255)
  age = models.IntegerField()

class Toy(models.Model):
  # Foreign key is going to create a property `cat` which fetches the
  # associated object. I believe it will also create a `toys` field.
  cat = models.ForeignKey(Cat, on_delete=models.CASCADE)
  name = models.CharField(max_length=255)
```

To generate migrations, we must first list the `cats` app as amongst the
`INSTALLED_APPS` in `ninety_nine_cats/settings.py`:

```python
INSTALLED_APPS = [
    'cats.apps.CatsConfig',
    '...'
]
```

And let's make the migrations:

```
>> ./manage.py makemigrations
Migrations for 'cats':
  cats/migrations/0001_initial.py
    - Create model Cat
    - Create model Toy
```

We can examine these; they're a lot like migrations written in
JavaScript style ORMs. We can run the migration with:

```
>> ./manage.py sqlmigrate cats 0001
...will print out the sql it would run, for you to examine and learn from...
>> ./manage.py migrate cats
```

We'll now setup the iPython REPL:

```
pip install django-extensions
pip install ipython
pip freeze > requirements.txt
# ADD 'django_extensions' to INSTALLED_APPS in settings.py.
./manage.py shell_plus --ipython
```

The glory of this is that it will autoload your models!

## TODO

* How to setup Postgres?
* Django Rest Framework.
* Various attributes of model properties.
* How associations are done.

Commit message:

make shell_plus default to iPython

README.md, after:

## Initial Project Setup

To start the project:

```bash
mkdir ninety_nine_cats
cd ninety_cats
pyenv virtualenv ninety_nine_cats
pyenv local ninety_nine_cats
pip install --upgrade pip
pip install Django
pip freeze > requirements.txt
django-admin startproject ninety_nine_cats .
```

To run the server (default port 8000):

```python
./manage.py runserver
```

The server should auto-restart when code changes.

## Starting the `cats` App

Django distinguishes the concept of "project" from "app." An "app" is a
reusable part of the larger project. I think an example is the admin
panel is an app that you can add.

First, let's setup pylint:

```
pip install pylint-django
pip freeze > requirements.txt
```

And add these lines to `.vscode/settings.json`:

```json
{
  "python.pythonPath": "/Users/ruggeri/.pyenv/versions/ninety_nine_cats/bin/python",
  "python.linting.pylintArgs": [
    "--load-plugins",
    "pylint_django",
    // missing-module-docstring (C0114),
    // missing-class-docstring (C0115),
    // missing-function-docstring (C0116),
    // bad-indentation (W0311),
    // bad-continuation (C0330),
    // too-few-public-methods (R0903),
    "--disable=C0114,C0115,C0116,W0311,C0330,R0903"
  ]
}
```

Next, let's create a very basic view function in `cats/views.py`:

```python
from django.http import HttpResponse

def index(request):
  return HttpResponse("Hello world!")
```

And let's connect it to a url in `cats/urls.py` (you'll have to touch
the file to make it first):

```python
from django.urls import path
from . import views

# name gives us a way to construct a url later.
urlpatterns = [path('', views.index, name="index")]
```

Last, setup the url in `ninety_nine_cats/urls.py`:

```python
from django.contrib import admin
# include is used to mount an app at a path.
from django.urls import include, path

urlpatterns = [
    path('cats/', include('cats.urls')), # << this is the line to add
    path('admin/', admin.site.urls),
]
```

## Database Setup

In `ninety_nine_cats/settings.py` there is some database configuration:

```python
DATABASES = {
    'default': {
        'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.sqlite3',
        'NAME': BASE_DIR / 'db.sqlite3',
    }
}
```

We won't go deeper into setting up Postgres right away. But you can see
it is here. We will run the default generated migration files (for admin
console, et cetera):

```
./manage.py migrate
```

Now you can run `sqlite3 db.sqlite3` and run `.schema --indent` to see
the default created schema.

Let's make our first models in `cats/models.py`:

```python
from django.db import models

# Each subclass of models.Model represents a model
class Cat(models.Model):
  # The fields are described as class properties. Every field has their
  # own options, which we will review some future time.
  name = models.CharField(max_length=255)
  age = models.IntegerField()

class Toy(models.Model):
  # Foreign key is going to create a property `cat` which fetches the
  # associated object. I believe it will also create a `toys` field.
  cat = models.ForeignKey(Cat, on_delete=models.CASCADE)
  name = models.CharField(max_length=255)
```

To generate migrations, we must first list the `cats` app as amongst the
`INSTALLED_APPS` in `ninety_nine_cats/settings.py`:

```python
INSTALLED_APPS = [
    'cats.apps.CatsConfig',
    '...'
]
```

And let's make the migrations:

```
>> ./manage.py makemigrations
Migrations for 'cats':
  cats/migrations/0001_initial.py
    - Create model Cat
    - Create model Toy
```

We can examine these; they're a lot like migrations written in
JavaScript style ORMs. We can run the migration with:

```
>> ./manage.py sqlmigrate cats 0001
...will print out the sql it would run, for you to examine and learn from...
>> ./manage.py migrate cats
```

We'll now setup the iPython REPL:

```
pip install django-extensions
pip install ipython
pip freeze > requirements.txt
# ADD 'django_extensions' to INSTALLED_APPS in settings.py.
./manage.py shell_plus --ipython
# And SHELL_PLUS = "ipython" to settings.py. Makes iPython the default.
./manage.py shell_plus
```

The glory of this is that it will autoload your models!

## TODO

* How to setup Postgres?
* Django Rest Framework.
* Various attributes of model properties.
* How associations are done.
